# STATICS-DSF01.01.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Copyright Clearance: Yes
Keywords: dry friction
Last Edit: Dec 1, 2020 4:54 PM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: identify, define and describe characteristics of dry friction
Margin of Error: N.A.
Module: Module 3:
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/ Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple Choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Sig Fig: N.A.
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. terms
Sub-outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-DSF01-01-28e335acdf2044789ea69ab9863db218
Topic/ Unit: Determine the equilibrium of a rigid body subjected to dry static friction resulting in no (or impending tip or slip) movement considering the rigid body's center of gravity (DSF)

# Question:

Three of the following answers are necessary conditions for dry friction.  Which one is not?

# Answer:

a. There is no lubricating fluid between the two surfaces.

b. The two surfaces must contact each other.

c. The two surfaces must be in relative motion or have the tendency for relative motion.

d. One of the surfaces is smooth.

# Feedback:

a. If there is no lubricating fluid between two contacting surfaces, then the friction force that resists the relative motion between the surfaces is called **DRY** friction. So no lubricating fluid is one of the necessary conditions for dry friction. However, you are asked to find the unnecessary one.

b. Dry friction, or any type of friction can only exists in **contacting** surfaces. So this answer is one of the necessary conditions for dry friction. However, you are asked to find the unnecessary one.

c. If there is no relative motion or any tendency for relative motion between two contacting surfaces, then the friction force is zero. So this answer is one of the necessary conditions for dry friction. However, you are asked to find the unnecessary one.

d. Well done! This answer is not a necessary condition for dry friction. "Smooth" generally means "frictionless".