# STATICS-TFM05.01.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Copyright Clearance: Yes
Keywords: frames
Last Edit: Dec 1, 2020 4:54 PM
Last Edited By: Zoe Mao
Learning Outcome: define frames and machines and describe how to solve them
Margin of Error: N.A.
Module: Module 3:
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/ Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple Choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Sig Fig: N.A.
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. definitions
Sub-outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-TFM05-01-1949484647bf4a808e7cdd4cfeb0a91d
Topic/ Unit: Determine forces in members of a truss using the MoJ and MoS and calculate forces acting on members of frames and machines in 2D (TFM)

# Question：

From the list of statements below, select the **incorrect** one.

# Answer：

a. Frames are used to support loads and are generally in static equilibrium.

b. Machines are designed to alter the effect of forces and contain moving parts. 

c. Frame members can only support axial loads. 

d. Frame members can support bending moments. 

# Feedback：

a. This statement is correct. Frames and machines are both made of multi-force members. Frames are designed to support loads and machines are designed to alter the effect of forces. However, this question is asking you to identify the incorrect statement.

b.  This statement is correct. Frames and machines are both made of multi-force members. Frames are designed to support loads and machines are designed to alter the effect of forces. However, this question is asking you to identify the incorrect statement.

c. Well done! This is the incorrect statement. Frames are made of multi-force members. Thus, they can resist all sorts of forces as well as bending moments. 

d. This statement is correct. Frames are made of multi-force members. Thus, they can resist all sorts of forces as well as bending moments. However, this question is asking you to identify the incorrect statement.