# STATICS-TFM01.03.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Copyright Clearance: Yes
Keywords: assumptions, truss
Last Edit: Dec 1, 2020 4:54 PM
Last Edited By: Zoe Mao
Learning Outcome: identify, define and describe trusses
Margin of Error: N.A.
Module: Module 3:
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/ Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple Choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Sig Fig: N.A.
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 3. assumptions
Sub-outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-TFM01-03-a0dab7cbd44e4775a31b15b0bc3ddd25
Topic/ Unit: Determine forces in members of a truss using the MoJ and MoS and calculate forces acting on members of frames and machines in 2D (TFM)

# Questions:

Which one of the following assumptions for a truss structure is **incorrect**?

# Answer:

a. Truss members are either 2FMs or ZFMs.

b. All members are in compression.

c. Weight of the members are neglected.

d. Connections are considered frictionless.

# Feedback:

a. All truss members are assumed to be 2FMs. However, occasionally there can be one or more ZFMs in a truss structure. Thus, this is a correct assumption, but this question is asking you to identify the incorrect one. 

b. Good job! The 2FMs can also be in tension or they can be ZFMs.

c. This is a correct assumption for trusses. The weight of the members are neglected, so forces are only applied at the end joints of the members. However, this question is asking you to identify the incorrect assumption.

d. This is a correct assumption for trusses. It is assumed that members are joined together by smooth pins i.e. frictionless connections. However, this question is asking you to identify the incorrect assumption.