# STATICS-DSF01.01.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Copyright Clearance: Yes
Keywords: dry friction
Last Edit: Dec 1, 2020 4:54 PM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: identify, define and describe characteristics of dry friction
Margin of Error: N.A.
Module: Module 3:
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/ Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple Choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Sig Fig: N.A.
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. terms
Sub-outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-DSF01-01-28e335acdf2044789ea69ab9863db218
Topic/ Unit: Determine the equilibrium of a rigid body subjected to dry static friction resulting in no (or impending tip or slip) movement considering the rigid body's center of gravity (DSF)

# Question:

Which one of the following statements is correct about the direction of friction?

# Answer:

a. The direction of friction is always **normal** to the surface and **opposed** to the direction that the object would slide without friction.

b. The direction of friction is always **normal** to the surface and **along** the direction that the object would slide without friction.

c. The direction of friction is always **tangent** to the surface and **opposed** to the direction that the object would slide without friction.

d. The direction of friction is always **tangent** to the surface and **along** the direction that the object would slide without friction.

# Feedback:

a. Friction force should always act tangent to the surface at the points of contact. 

b. Friction is a force that resists movements between two contacting surfaces. Thus, the direction of friction is always **tangent** to the surface and **opposed** to the direction that the object would slide without friction.

c. Well done! This is the correct statement about the direction of friction.

d. Friction is a force that resists movements between two contacting surfaces. Thus, it should be **opposed** to the direction that the object would slide without friction.