# STATICS-DSF02.02.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Copyright Clearance: Yes
Keywords: dry friction, equations, friction, static friction
Last Edit: Dec 1, 2020 4:54 PM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: identify, define and describe characteristics of dry friction problems involving no impending motion
Margin of Error: N.A.
Module: Module 3:
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/ Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple Choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Sig Fig: N.A.
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. equations
Sub-outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-DSF02-02-990f5ab9799c44f792e8f2dc5791c030
Topic/ Unit: Determine the equilibrium of a rigid body subjected to dry static friction resulting in no (or impending tip or slip) movement considering the rigid body's center of gravity (DSF)

# Question:

Which one of the following equations is for calculating the static frictional force when the object has no impending motion?

# Answer:

a. $F_s=\mu_sN$

b. $F_k=\mu_kN$

c. $\sum F=0$

# Feedback:

a. This is for calculating the maximum static frictional force. When the object has no impending motion, the frictional force can be determined based on the equilibrium of forces.  Note however that you often have to compare your calculated frictional force with the maximum static frictional force to make sure motion is not impending!

b. This is the equation for calculating the kinetic frictional force. When the object has no impending motion, the frictional force can be determined based on the equilibrium of forces.  Note however that you often have to compare your calculated frictional force with the maximum static frictional force to make sure motion is not impending!

c. Good job!  When the object has no impending motion, the frictional force can be determined based on the equilibrium of forces.  Note however that you often have to compare your calculated frictional force with the maximum static frictional force to make sure motion is not impending!