# STATICS-DSF03.01.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Copyright Clearance: Yes
Keywords: dry friction, impending motion, static friction
Last Edit: Dec 1, 2020 4:54 PM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: identify, define and describe characteristics of dry friction problems involving impending motion at all points
Margin of Error: N.A.
Module: Module 3:
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/ Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple Choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Sig Fig: N.A.
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. characteristics
Sub-outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-DSF03-01-f97564be8fff4616bd1990fd8c32503b
Topic/ Unit: Determine the equilibrium of a rigid body subjected to dry static friction resulting in no (or impending tip or slip) movement considering the rigid body's center of gravity (DSF)

# Question:

Which one of the following statements is **incorrect** about dry friction involving impending motion at all points?

# Answer:

a. The frictional force is directly proportional to the resultant normal force.

b. The rougher the contacting surfaces, the higher the frictional forces. 

c. The frictional force is equal and opposite to the sum of the external forces in the direction parallel to the contacting surfaces.

d. The larger the contact area, the higher the frictional forces. 

# Feedback:

a. This statement is correct, however, this question is asking you to identify the incorrect one. When the object is in a state of impending motion, the frictional force is equal to the maximum static frictional force, $F_s$, which is directly proportional to the resultant normal force and the surface roughness. At the same time, the object is still in equilibrium. Thus, the frictional force can also be determined based on the equilibrium of forces. 

b. This statement is correct, however, this question is asking you to identify the incorrect one. When the object is in a state of impending motion, the frictional force is equal to the maximum static frictional force, $F_s$, which is directly proportional to the resultant normal force and the surface roughness. At the same time, the object is still in equilibrium. Thus, the frictional force can also be determined based on the equilibrium of forces. 

c. This statement is correct, however, this question is asking you to identify the incorrect one. When the object is in a state of impending motion, the frictional force is equal to the maximum static frictional force, $F_s$, which is directly proportional to the resultant normal force and the surface roughness. At the same time, the object is still in equilibrium. Thus, the frictional force can also be determined based on the equilibrium of forces. 

d. Well done! This is the incorrect statement. The contact area does not affect the frictional force.