# STATICS-TFM01.01.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Copyright Clearance: Yes
Keywords: definition, truss
Last Edit: Dec 1, 2020 4:54 PM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: identify, define and describe trusses
Margin of Error: N.A.
Module: Module 3:
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/ Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple Choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Sig Fig: N.A.
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. definitions
Sub-outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-TFM01-01-61f33c717c9044c0accb053474c24cfc
Topic/ Unit: Determine forces in members of a truss using the MoJ and MoS and calculate forces acting on members of frames and machines in 2D (TFM)

# Question：

Which one of the following is the most important characteristic of a truss?

# Answer：

a. Truss members must be pin-connected.

b. Trusses must be made of 2FMs.

c. Truss members must be light in weight.

d. Trusses must be stable. 

# Feedback：

a. Frames can also be pin-connected. The difference is that trusses are made of 2FMs, while frames are made of multi-force members. 

b. Good job! This is the most important attribute that differentiates a truss from other structures. 

c. Members are assumed to be weightless in truss analysis. However, this is because the weights of the members are insignificant compared to the loads they can resist. It doesn't mean the members themselves need to be light.

d. All structures need to be stable. So this is not the most important attribute that differentiates a truss from other structures.