# STATICS-DSF02.01.03

Automatic Grading: Yes
Copyright Clearance: Yes
Keywords: no impending motion, static friction
Last Edit: Dec 1, 2020 4:54 PM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: identify, define and describe characteristics of dry friction problems involving no impending motion
Margin of Error: N.A.
Module: Module 3:
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/ Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple Choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Sig Fig: N.A.
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. characteristics
Sub-outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-DSF02-01-f66888704ea849ce8e5425d408c36f55
Topic/ Unit: Determine the equilibrium of a rigid body subjected to dry static friction resulting in no (or impending tip or slip) movement considering the rigid body's center of gravity (DSF)

# Question:

Which one of the following statements is correct about dry friction when there is no apparent impending motion?

# Answer:

a. The frictional force is directly proportional to the resultant normal force.

b. The rougher the contacting surfaces, the higher the frictional forces. 

c. The frictional force is equal and opposite to the sum of the external forces in the direction parallel to the contacting surfaces.

d. The larger the contact area, the higher the frictional forces. 

# Feedback:

a. The maximum static frictional force $F_s$ and the kinetic frictional force $F_k$ are directly proportional to the resultant normal force and the surface roughness. However, if the object has no impending motion, the frictional force should be determined based on the equilibrium of forces. 

b. The maximum static frictional force $F_s$ and the kinetic frictional force $F_k$ are directly proportional to the resultant normal force and the surface roughness. However, if the object has no impending motion, the frictional force should be determined based on the equilibrium of forces. 

c. Good job! If the object has no impending motion, the frictional force should be determined based on the equilibrium of forces. 

d. The contact area does not affect the frictional force.