# STATICS-TFM03.01.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Copyright Clearance: Yes
Keywords: ZFMs
Last Edit: Dec 1, 2020 4:54 PM
Last Edited By: Zoe Mao
Learning Outcome: define and describe ZFMs
Margin of Error: N.A.
Module: Module 3:
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/ Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multi-select
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Sig Fig: N.A.
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. their value/role
Sub-outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-TFM03-01-0165232b5b62453a9744688fe7457d89
Topic/ Unit: Determine forces in members of a truss using the MoJ and MoS and calculate forces acting on members of frames and machines in 2D (TFM)

# Question:

If zero-force members (ZFMs) support no loads in a given loading situation, why do we need them there? (Select all that apply)

# Answer:

a. In reality, structural members are not perfectly aligned. So "ZFMs" are not truly having zero forces in them.  

b. They are there for aesthetic purposes. 

c. They are not ZFMs in other loading situations. 

d. They can change the centroid of the truss. 

# Feedback:

a. Good job! This is one of the correct answers. In reality, members are not perfectly aligned. So "ZFMs" do carry some forces in them, and the presence of the ZFMs will increase the stability of the structure. 

b. While the aesthetics of a structure is one of the important factors to consider, structural engineers focus more on safety and efficiency in design. 

c.  Good job! This is one of the correct answers. ZFMs might not be ZFMs when the loading is changed. 

d. The centroid and the weight of a truss are generally not a matter of concern. Because the weight is usually insignificant compared to the applied loads.