# STATICS-DSF02.01.04

Automatic Grading: Yes
Copyright Clearance: Yes
Keywords: no impending motion, static friction
Last Edit: Dec 1, 2020 4:54 PM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: identify, define and describe characteristics of dry friction problems involving no impending motion
Margin of Error: N.A.
Module: Module 3:
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/ Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple Choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Sig Fig: N.A.
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. characteristics
Sub-outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-DSF02-01-f66888704ea849ce8e5425d408c36f55
Topic/ Unit: Determine the equilibrium of a rigid body subjected to dry static friction resulting in no (or impending tip or slip) movement considering the rigid body's center of gravity (DSF)

# Question:

Which one of the following statements is correct about static frictional force?

# Answer:

a. The static frictional force in a specific situation is always higher than the kinetic frictional force for the same object.

b. The static frictional force in a specific situation is always lower than the kinetic frictional force for the same object.

c. The static frictional force in a specific situation can be higher or lower than the kinetic frictional force for the same object. 

# Feedback:

a. The **maximum** static frictional force is always higher than the kinetic frictional force. However, the static frictional force in a specific situation can be any value from zero to the maximum static frictional force. 

b. The **maximum** static frictional force is always higher than the kinetic frictional force. However, the static frictional force in a specific situation can be any value from zero to the maximum static frictional force. 

c. Good job!  The **maximum** static frictional force is always higher than the kinetic frictional force. However, the static frictional force in a specific situation can be any value from zero to the maximum static frictional force.