# STATICS-DSF03.02.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Copyright Clearance: Yes
Keywords: dry friction, equations, friction, static friction
Last Edit: Dec 1, 2020 4:54 PM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: identify, define and describe characteristics of dry friction problems involving impending motion at all points
Margin of Error: N.A.
Module: Module 3:
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/ Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple Choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Sig Fig: N.A.
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. equations
Sub-outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-DSF03-02-08e51d8bcef242febea3fc00ae30cadf
Topic/ Unit: Determine the equilibrium of a rigid body subjected to dry static friction resulting in no (or impending tip or slip) movement considering the rigid body's center of gravity (DSF)

# Question:

Which of the following equations can be used to calculate the frictional force when the object is on the verge of moving? (Select all that apply)

# Answer:

a. $F_s=\mu_sN$

b. $F_k=\mu_kN$

c. $\sum F=0$

# Feedback:

a. Well done! This is one of the correct answers. This equation is for calculating the maximum static frictional force. When the object is on the verge of moving, the frictional force is equal to the maximum static frictional force. Since the object is still in equilibrium, the frictional force can also be determined using the equilibrium of forces. 

b. This equation is for calculating the kinetic frictional force. When the object is on the verge of moving, the frictional force is equal to the maximum static frictional force, which can be calculated as $F_s=\mu_sN$. Since the object is still in equilibrium, the frictional force can also be determined using the equilibrium of forces. 

c. Good job! This is one of the correct answers. Since the object is still in equilibrium, the frictional force can be determined using the equilibrium of forces. Additionally, when the object is on the verge of moving, the frictional force is equal to the maximum static frictional force, which can be calculated as $F_s=\mu_sN$.