# STATICS-TFM01.03.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Copyright Clearance: Yes
Keywords: assumptions, truss
Last Edit: Dec 1, 2020 4:54 PM
Last Edited By: Zoe Mao
Learning Outcome: identify, define and describe trusses
Margin of Error: N.A.
Module: Module 3:
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/ Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multi-select
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Sig Fig: N.A.
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 3. assumptions
Sub-outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-TFM01-03-a0dab7cbd44e4775a31b15b0bc3ddd25
Topic/ Unit: Determine forces in members of a truss using the MoJ and MoS and calculate forces acting on members of frames and machines in 2D (TFM)

# Questions:

Which of the following are correct assumptions for trusses? (Select all that apply)

# Answer:

a. Loads are transferred through axial tension and compression in members.

b. Weight is applied at the centroid of a truss member.

c. All loadings are applied at joints.

d. Truss members are rigid bodies.

# Feedback:

a. Good job! This is one of the correct assumptions for trusses. All truss members are two force members. Thus, they carry loads through axial tension or compression. 

b. It is true that weight should be applied at the centroid of a member. However, in truss analysis, the members are assumed to be weightless. Forces are only applied at the end joints.  Thus the members are all 2FMs.

c. Good job! This is one of the correct assumptions for trusses. In truss analysis, the members are assumed to be weightless. Forces are only applied at the end joints, thus the members are all 2FMs.

d. Good job! This is one of the correct assumptions for trusses. The deformations occurring in truss members are likely to be very small. Thus, the members can be assumed to be rigid bodies.