# STATICS-DSF01.02.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Copyright Clearance: Yes
Keywords: dry friction
Last Edit: Dec 1, 2020 4:54 PM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: identify, define and describe characteristics of dry friction
Margin of Error: N.A.
Module: Module 3:
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/ Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple Choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Sig Fig: N.A.
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. theory
Sub-outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-DSF01-02-4dbeb2ff2e6342f597633f4a3ab4ab46
Topic/ Unit: Determine the equilibrium of a rigid body subjected to dry static friction resulting in no (or impending tip or slip) movement considering the rigid body's center of gravity (DSF)

# Question:

Which of the following statements are correct? (Select all that apply)

# Answer:

a. The smoother the contacting surfaces, the lower the friction.

b. The smoother the contacting surfaces, the higher the friction.

c. The higher the resultant normal force, the lower the friction.

d. The higher the resultant normal force, the higher the friction.

# Feedback:

a. Good job! This is one of the correct answers. The frictional force is directly proportional to the resultant normal force and the coefficient of friction. Rougher surfaces have a higher coefficient, while smoother surfaces have a lower coefficient.  

b. The frictional force is directly proportional to the resultant normal force and the coefficient of friction. Rougher surfaces have a higher coefficient, while smoother surfaces have a lower coefficient.  Thus, a **smoother** surface should result in a **lower** frictional force. 

c. Frictional force is directly proportional to the resultant normal force and the coefficient of friction. Thus, a **higher resultant normal force** should result in a **higher** frictional force. 

d. Good job! This is one of the correct answers. The frictional force is directly proportional to the resultant normal force and the coefficient of friction. Rougher surfaces have a higher coefficient, while smoother surfaces have a lower coefficient.