# STATICS-PSE10.01.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: Assumptions, Problem solving
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Sean Maw
Learning Outcome: Recognize the relevant assumptions in a given scenario, given a description (words and/or diagram)
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multi-select
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. Given a written description of the scenario
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-PSE10-01-cab5219f2a53435d92698541275a75a6

# Question:

Consider the following scenario:

---

Strut $AB$ is connected at point $B$ to the floor and juts out at an angle of $\alpha=45\degree$, measured CW from the positive $y$ axis. Strut $AC$ is connected at point $C$ to a spot on the vertical wall, directly above point $B$. The struts are connected to each other at point $A$. The angle between struts $AB$ and $AC$ is $\beta=30\degree$. If a downward force of $F=450\;\mathrm{lb}$ is applied to point $A$, what is the force directed along strut $A$$B$?

---

From the list below, select **all the correct assumptions** that should be made in order to solve the above problem. 

a) The system is in static equilibrium

b) Gravity is $9.81\;\mathrm{m/s^2}$

c) Given information is exact

d) The struts are rigid and do not deform

e) The springs are linear

f) The struts are frictionless

g) The struts are modelled as a particle

h) Point $A$ is modelled as a particle

i) The strut system is modelled as a rigid body

# Answer:

a) The system is in static equilibrium

c) Given information is exact

d) The struts are rigid and do not deform

h) Point $A$ is modelled as a particle

# Feedback:

The **assumptions** section of your submission must list all pertinent assumptions that have been made in order to solve the problem. A thorough list of assumptions should be viewed as part of the answer to the problem. The numerical values you calculate are only useful if the assumptions used to obtain them are clear. In engineering practice, clarity about the conditions under which a numerical value was calculated is **very** important to ensure the value is not used under conditions where it is not valid.

Think about the assumptions presented. Do they all apply to the problem as stated? Are all the assumptions relevant to this particular situation? Of the ones that are relevant, do they make a true statement about the assumptions we need to solve the problem? Have you selected all the assumptions necessary for the given information? All of these questions must be considered when framing the assumptions of a problem. 

In this problem, g is not needed, there are no springs, struts are not "frictionless", struts are not particles, and we don't need to say that the strut system is a rigid body (as we care about $A$ as a particle).