# STATICS-PSE13.02.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: Conclusion, Problem solving
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Recognize the most appropriate conclusion to a problem, given a statement of the problem and a numeric answer
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multi-select
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. Reporting the conclusion with appropriate significant figures
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-PSE13-02-8e92f018de734a1e92cce55245f6b67b

# Question:

Consider the following scenario:

---

A support pin on the edge of a shelf supports three different forces.  Taking the pin as the origin,  $F_1=700\;\mathrm{lb}$ has an angle of $\phi_1=30\degree$, measured CCW from the negative $x$ axis. $F_2=400\;\mathrm{lb}$ is directed straight downward on the support pin.  And $F_3=600\;\mathrm{lb}$ has an angle of $\phi_3=45\degree$, measured CW from the positive $x$ axis. What is the magnitude of the resultant force vector experienced by the pin?

---

Assume that the correct numerical answer to the problem above is $974.26407$. From the list below, select the best **conclusion** with the correct number of significant figures. 

"The magnitude of the resultant force vector experienced by the pin is  _____________."

a) $974.3\;\mathrm{lb}$

b) $974.264\;\mathrm{lb}$

c) $974\;\mathrm{lb}$

# Answer:

c) $974\;\mathrm{lb}$

# Feedback:

a) The numerical conclusion to a problem must be stated to three significant figures. This answer has four significant figures.

b) The numerical conclusion to a problem must be stated to three significant figures. This answer has six significant figures.

c) Good job! The numerical conclusion to a problem must be stated to three significant figures.