# STATICS-PSE10.01.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: Given, Problem solving
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Sean Maw
Learning Outcome: Recognize the relevant assumptions in a given scenario, given a description (words and/or diagram)
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multi-select
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. Given a written description of the scenario
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-PSE10-01-cab5219f2a53435d92698541275a75a6

# Question:

Consider the following scenario:

---

A hook screwed into a wall has two ropes pulling on it. The first rope is pulling with a force magnitude of $F_1=100\;\mathrm{N}$ at an angle $\theta_1=15\degree$. The second rope is pulling with a force magnitude of $F_2=150\;\mathrm{N}$ at an angle $\theta_2=80\degree$. What is the magnitude of the resultant force acting on the hook due to the two ropes?  Both angles $\theta_1$  and $\theta_2$ are measured CCW from the positive $x$ axis.

---

From the list below, select **all the correct assumptions** that should be made in order to solve the above particle equilibrium problem. 

a) The ropes are taut

b) The ropes are inelastic

c) Gravity is $9.81\;\mathrm{m/s^2}$

d) Given information is exact

e) The hook and two ropes are in static equilibrium

f) The hook is rigid and does not deform

g) The springs are linear

h) The hook is frictionless

i) The hook is modelled as a particle

j) The ropes are modelled as a particle

k) The hook is modelled as a rigid body

# Answer:

a) The ropes are taut

b) The ropes are inelastic

d) Given information is exact

e) The hook and two ropes are in static equilibrium

i) The hook is modelled as a particle

# Feedback:

The **assumptions** section of your submission must list all pertinent assumptions that have been made in order to solve the problem. A thorough list of assumptions should be viewed as part of the answer to the problem. The numerical values you calculate are only useful if the assumptions used to obtain them are clear. In engineering practice, clarity about the conditions under which a numerical value was calculated is **very** important to ensure the value is not used under conditions where it is not valid.

Think about the assumptions presented. Do they all apply to the problem as stated? Are all the assumptions relevant to this particular situation? Of the ones that are relevant, do they make a true statement about the assumptions we need to solve the problem? Have you selected all the assumptions necessary for the given information? All of these questions must be considered when framing the assumptions of a problem. 

Note that g is not needed for this problem, there are no springs in this scenario, ropes are not particles, a rigid body is not a particle, and it's not necessary to note that the hook is frictionless (although it would be OK to do so).