# STATICS-PSE09.01.04

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: Find, Problem solving
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Caelia Gardiner
Learning Outcome: Recognize the best (unknown) information to find in a given scenario, given a description (words and/or diagram)
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multi-select
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. Given a written description of the scenario
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-PSE09-01-62c143c236e44249a5f3f7ad114bf8d6

# Question:

Consider the following scenario:

---

A washer on the edge of a shelf supports three different forces.  Taking the washer as the origin,  $F_1=700\;\mathrm{lb}$ and has an angle of $\phi_1=30\degree$, measured CCW from the negative $x$ axis. $F_2=400\;\mathrm{lb}$ and is directed straight downward on the washer.  And $F_3=600\;\mathrm{lb}$ and has an angle of $\phi_3=45\degree$, measured CW from the positive $x$ axis. What is the resultant force experienced by the washer, expressed in Cartesian vector form?

---

From the list below, select **the correct option** depicting the information that you need to **find** in the above problem.  

a) the magnitude and direction of the resultant force vector

b) the resultant force experienced by the washer

c) the angle $\phi_2$

d) the resultant force experienced by the washer, expressed in Cartesian vector form

# Answer:

d) the resultant force experienced by the washer, expressed in Cartesian vector form

# Feedback:

a) This question asks you to identify what it is that you are supposed to **Find** to solve the problem. This section must contain a concise list of the information that you are looking for, including proper notation. The problem statement does not ask for a magnitude and direction - it is asking for the resultant force vector in a different format. 

b) This question asks you to identify what it is that you are supposed to **Find** to solve the problem. This section must contain a concise list of the information that you are looking for, including proper notation. While the problem statement is asking for the resultant force, there is a form in which it must be expressed. More information is needed.

c) This question asks you to identify what it is that you are supposed to **Find** to solve the problem. This section must contain a concise list of the information that you are looking for, including proper notation. The problem statement does not ask for you to find any angles, even though the angle $\phi_2$ isn't given either. 

d) Good job! This question asks you to identify what it is that you are supposed to **Find** to solve the problem. This section must contain a concise list of the information that you are looking for, including proper notation. The problem statement asks for the resultant force in Cartesian vector form, all of which is necessary information for you to find.