# STATICS-PSE09.01.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: Find, Problem solving
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Sean Maw
Learning Outcome: Recognize the best (unknown) information to find in a given scenario, given a description (words and/or diagram)
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. Given a written description of the scenario
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-PSE09-01-62c143c236e44249a5f3f7ad114bf8d6

# Question:

Consider the following scenario:

---

A hook screwed into a wall has two ropes pulling on it. The first rope is pulling with a force $F_1=100\;\mathrm{N}$ at an angle $\theta_1=15\degree$. The second rope is pulling with a force $F_2=150\;\mathrm{N}$ at an angle $\theta_2=80\degree$. What is the magnitude of the resultant force acting on the hook due to the two ropes? Both angles $\theta_1$  and $\theta_2$ are measured CCW from the positive $x$ axis.

---

From the list below, select **the correct option** depicting the information that you need to **find** in the above problem.  

a) the magnitude of the resultant force acting on the hook due to the two ropes

b) the resultant force vector acting on the screw hook

c) the angle of the resultant force vector acting on the screw hook

d) angles $\theta_1$ and $\theta_2$

# Answer:

a) the magnitude of the resultant force acting on the hook due to the two ropes

# Feedback:

a) Good job! This question asks you to identify what it is that you are supposed to **Find** to solve the problem. This section must contain a concise list of the information that you are looking for, including proper notation. No notation is given in the question, so re-stating the sentence describing "the magnitude of the resultant force acting on the hook due to the two ropes" is the correct answer. 

b) This question asks you to identify what it is that you are supposed to **Find** to solve the problem. This section must contain a concise list of the information that you are looking for, including proper notation. The problem statement does not ask for you to find a vector, so this option is incorrect. 

c) This question asks you to identify what it is that you are supposed to **Find** to solve the problem. This section must contain a concise list of the information that you are looking for, including proper notation. The problem statement does not ask for you to find an angle, so this option is incorrect. 

d) This question asks you to identify what it is that you are supposed to **Find** to solve the problem. This section must contain a concise list of the information that you are looking for, including proper notation. The problem statement actually gives the values for angles $\theta_1$ and $\theta_2$ in the first and second sentences, so you do not need to "find" these.