# STATICS-PSE10.01.04

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: Assumptions, Problem solving
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Caelia Gardiner
Learning Outcome: Recognize the relevant assumptions in a given scenario, given a description (words and/or diagram)
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multi-select
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. Given a written description of the scenario
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-PSE10-01-cab5219f2a53435d92698541275a75a6

# Question:

Consider the following scenario:

---

A washer on the edge of a shelf supports three different forces.  A force with a magnitude of $F_1=700\;\mathrm{lb}$ is directed at an angle of $\phi_1=30\degree$, measured CCW from the positive $x$ axis.  A force with a magnitude of $F_2=400\;\mathrm{lb}$ is directed straight upwards from the washer.  And a force with a magnitude of $F_3=600\;\mathrm{lb}$ forms an angle of $\phi_3=45\degree$, measured CW from the positive $x$ axis.  What is the resultant force vector experienced by the washer, expressed in Cartesian form?

---

From the list below, select **all the correct assumptions** that should be made in order to solve the above problem. 

a) The ropes are taut

b) Gravity is $9.81\;\mathrm{m/s^2}$

c) Given information is exact

d) The system is in static equilibrium

e) The springs are linear

f) The washer is modelled as a particle

g) The washer is modelled as a rigid body

# Answer:

c) Given information is exact

d) The system is in static equilibrium

f) The washer is modelled as a particle

# Feedback:

The **assumptions** section of your submission must list all pertinent assumptions that have beenmade in order to solve the problem. A thorough list of assumptions should be viewed as part of the answer to the problem. The numerical values you calculate are only useful if the assumptions used to obtain them are clear. In engineering practice, clarity about the conditions under which a numerical value was calculated is **very** important to ensure the value is not used under conditions where it is not valid.

Think about the assumptions presented. Do they all apply to the problem as stated? Are all the assumptions relevant to this particular situation? Of the ones that are relevant, do they make a true statement about the assumptions we need to solve the problem? Have you selected all the assumptions necessary for the given information? All of these questions must be considered when framing the assumptions of a problem. 

Note that there are no ropes or springs in the problem, that $g$ isn't needed to answer the problem, and that as a particle the washer is not a rigid body. Look for **three correct answers** to this problem.