# STATICS-ASV07.02.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: 2D, Cartesian, Direction, Magnitude
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Resolve a 2D vector, given its magnitude and direction, into Cartesian vector notation
Margin of Error: N/A
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Zoe
Question Format: Numerical fill in the blank
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: Yes
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Sig Fig: N/A
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. The given vector is directed along the negative x axis
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-ASV07-02-10c19e09421d4b1b8051758928fabf10

# Question:

For a vector with a magnitude of $[A]$ N directed along the negative $x$-axis, select the correct representation of this vector in Cartesian form.

### Variable Parameters

$[A]:$ Range (1, 20), 0 decimal places

# Answer:

a. $\overrightarrow{v}=\left([A]\hat{i}+0\hat{j}\right) \mathrm{N}$

b. $\overrightarrow{v}=\left(-[A]\hat{i}+0\hat{j}\right) \mathrm{N}$

c. $\overrightarrow{v}=\left(0\hat{i}+[A]\hat{j}\right) \mathrm{N}$

d. $\overrightarrow{v}=\left(0\hat{i}-[A]\hat{j}\right) \mathrm{N}$

# Feedback:

a. This vector is pointing along the negative $x$-axis, thus, the angle between this vector and the positive $x$-axis is 180 degrees.

To find the $x$ component from the magnitude and angle of a vector, multiply the magnitude by the cosine of the angle, which would be -[A] N in this case.

To find the $y$ component from the magnitude and angle of a vector, multiply the magnitude by the sine of the angle, which would be 0 N in this case.

b. Well done! This vector is pointing along the negative $x$-axis, thus, the angle between this vector and the positive $x$-axis is 180 degrees.

To find the $x$ component from the magnitude and angle of a vector, multiply the magnitude by the cosine of the angle, which would be -[A] N in this case.

To find the $y$ component from the magnitude and angle of a vector, multiply the magnitude by the sine of the angle, which would be 0 N in this case.

c. This vector is pointing along the negative $x$-axis, thus, the angle between this vector and the positive $x$-axis is 180 degrees.

To find the $x$ component from the magnitude and angle of a vector, multiply the magnitude by the cosine of the angle, which would be -[A] N in this case.

To find the $y$ component from the magnitude and angle of a vector, multiply the magnitude by the sine of the angle, which would be 0 N in this case.

d. This vector is pointing along the negative $x$-axis, thus, the angle between this vector and the positive $x$-axis is 180 degrees.

To find the $x$ component from the magnitude and angle of a vector, multiply the magnitude by the cosine of the angle, which would be -[A] N in this case.

To find the $y$ component from the magnitude and angle of a vector, multiply the magnitude by the sine of the angle, which would be 0 N in this case.