# STATICS-PSE13.04.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: Conclusion, Problem solving
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Recognize the most appropriate conclusion to a problem, given a statement of the problem and a numeric answer
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multi-select
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 4. Reporting the conclusion with appropriate labels
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-PSE13-04-10fe547e595849be967901b51a77ca43

# Question:

Consider the following scenario:

---

Strut $AB$ is connected at point $B$ to the floor and juts out at an angle of $\alpha=45\degree$, measured CW from the positive $y$ axis. Strut $AC$ is connected at point $C$ to a spot on the vertical wall, directly above point $B$. The struts are connected to each other at point $A$. The angle between struts $AB$ and $AC$ is $\beta=30\degree$. If a downward force of $F=450\;\mathrm{lb}$ is applied to point $A$, what is the magnitude of the force $\overrightarrow F_{AB}$ directed from point $A$ to point $B$?

---

Assume that the correct numerical answer to the problem above is $318.1980515$.  From the list below, select the best depiction of the **conclusion** with the appropriate labels. 

"The magnitude of the force $\overrightarrow F_{AB}$ directed from point $A$ to point $B$ is _____________."

a) $F,{AB}=318\;\mathrm{lb}$

b) $F_{AB}=318\;\mathrm{lb}$

c) $f_{AB}=318\;\mathrm{lb}$

d) $F_{BA}=318\;\mathrm{lb}$

# Answer:

b) $F_{AB}=318\;\mathrm{lb}$

# Feedback:

a) The conclusion to a problem must be given with correct notation.  Subscripts and superscripts are important parts of variable names and must be shown as such.

b) Correct! The conclusion to a problem must be given with correct notation. This answer has the same variable name as given in the written description. 

c) The conclusion to a problem must be given with correct notation.  Upper case and lower case letters have different meanings as variable names, so make sure the case is correct. 

d) The conclusion to a problem must be given with correct notation.  The order of $A$ and $B$ is very important, since it tells us which direction the vector is pointing.