# STATICS-PSE10.01.03

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: Assumptions, Problem solving
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Sean Maw
Learning Outcome: Recognize the relevant assumptions in a given scenario, given a description (words and/or diagram)
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multi-select
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. Given a written description of the scenario
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-PSE10-01-cab5219f2a53435d92698541275a75a6

# Question:

Consider the following scenario:

---

A ring (point $A$) is suspended in mid-air by 2 ropes and a spring.  The spring stretches from the ring to a point $C$ on a vertical wall, on the left.  One of the ropes joins the ring with a vertical wall on the right at point $B$. The spring $AC$ is horizontal and has a spring constant of $k_{AC}=20\;\mathrm{N/m}$. The rope $AB$ is attached to the right wall such that it has an angle of $\theta_{AB}=60\degree$, measured CCW from the positive $x$ axis.  A second rope is attached to the ring and pulls with a force of $F=600\;\mathrm{N}$ at an angle of $\theta_F=45\degree$, measured CW from the positive $x$ axis. If rope $AB$ has a length of $0.5\;\mathrm{m}$ and the stretched length of spring $AC$ is $0.75\;\mathrm{m}$, what is the unstretched length of the spring?

---

From the list below, select **all the correct assumptions** that must be made in order to solve the above problem. 

a) The ropes are taut

b) The ropes are inelastic

c) Gravity is $9.81\;\mathrm{m/s^2}$

d) Given information is exact

e) The spring and two ropes are in static equilibrium

f) The spring is rigid and does not deform

g) The spring is linear

h) The ring at point $A$ is frictionless

i) The spring is modelled as a particle

j) The ring at point $A$ is modelled as a particle

k) The spring is modelled as a rigid body

# Answer:

a) The ropes are taut

b) The ropes are inelastic

d) Given information is exact

e) The spring and two ropes are in static equilibrium

g) The spring is linear

j) The ring at point $A$ is modelled as a particle

# Feedback:

The **assumptions** section of your submission must list all pertinent assumptions that have beenmade in order to solve the problem. A thorough list of assumptions should be viewed as part of the answer to the problem. The numerical values you calculate are only useful if the assumptions used to obtain them are clear. In engineering practice, clarity about the conditions under which a numerical value was calculated is **very** important to ensure the value is not used under conditions where it is not valid.

Think about the assumptions presented. Do they all apply to the problem as stated? Are all the assumptions relevant to this particular situation? Of the ones that are relevant, do they make a true statement about the assumptions we need to solve the problem? Have you selected all the assumptions necessary for the given information? All of these questions must be considered when framing the assumptions of a problem. 

Note that the value of g won't be needed in this question, springs are never rigid, rigid bodies, or particles, and while saying the ring is frictionless is not wrong, it's not really necessary here.