# STATICS-VDP01.04.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: 2D, Dot product
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Recognize the correct expression for the dot product of two 2D vectors
Margin of Error: N/A
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Sig Fig: N/A
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 4. To determine the magnitude of a projection of a vector on a vector that creates a right angle between them
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-VDP01-04-cac7d22e97ac431d89845328012dd059

# Question:

Given that the angle between two 3D vectors, $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$, is $90 ^\circ$, what is the magnitude of the projection of $\overrightarrow{A}$ onto $\overrightarrow{B}$? 

# Answer:

a. $|\overrightarrow{A}|$

b. $|\overrightarrow{B}|$

c. $0$

d. Not enough information.

# Feedback:

a. The projection of $\overrightarrow{A}$ onto $\overrightarrow{B}$ can be calculated as $|\overrightarrow{A}|\text{cos}(\theta ^\circ)$, where $\theta^\circ$ represents the angle between these two vectors.  If $\theta=90^\circ$, then $\text{cos}(\theta ^\circ)=0$.  Thus, the projection of one vector onto the other one should also be zero.

b. The projection of $\overrightarrow{A}$ onto $\overrightarrow{B}$ can be calculated as $|\overrightarrow{A}|\text{cos}(\theta ^\circ)$, where $\theta^\circ$ represents the angle between these two vectors.  If $\theta=90^\circ$, then $\text{cos}(\theta ^\circ)=0$.  Thus, the projection of one vector onto the other one should also be zero.

c. Great! For two vectors perpendicular to each other, the projection of one vector onto the other one should be zero. 

d. The projection of $\overrightarrow{A}$ onto $\overrightarrow{B}$ can be calculated as $|\overrightarrow{A}|\text{cos}(\theta ^\circ)$, where $\theta^\circ$ represents the angle between these two vectors.  If $\theta=90^\circ$, then $\text{cos}(\theta ^\circ)=0$.  Thus, the projection of one vector onto the other one should also be zero.