# STATICS-PSE09.01.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: Find, Problem solving
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Sean Maw
Learning Outcome: Recognize the best (unknown) information to find in a given scenario, given a description (words and/or diagram)
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. Given a written description of the scenario
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-PSE09-01-62c143c236e44249a5f3f7ad114bf8d6

# Question:

Consider the following scenario:

---

Strut $AB$ is connected at point $B$ to the floor and juts out at an angle of $\alpha=45\degree$, measured CW from the positive $y$ axis. Strut $AC$ is connected at point $C$ to a spot on the vertical wall, directly above point $B$. The struts are connected to each other at point $A$. The angle between struts $AB$ and $AC$ is $\beta=30\degree$. If a downward force of $F=450\;\mathrm{lb}$ is applied to point $A$, what is the force directed from point $A$ to point $B$?

---

From the list below, select **the correct option** depicting the information that you need to **find** in the above problem.  

a) the force directed from point $B$ to point $A$

b) the distance between points $A$ and $B$

c) the force directed from point $A$ to point $B$

d) the resultant force, $F_{AB}$

# Answer:

c) the force directed from point $A$ to point $B$

# Feedback:

a) This question asks you to identify what it is that you are supposed to **Find** to solve the problem. This section must contain a concise list of the information that you are looking for, including proper notation. Look carefully at which direction the force component is to be directed.

b) This question asks you to identify what it is that you are supposed to **Find** to solve the problem. This section must contain a concise list of the information that you are looking for, including proper notation. The problem statement does not ask for you to find a distance, so this option is incorrect. 

c) Good job! This question asks you to identify what it is that you are supposed to **Find** to solve the problem. This section must contain a concise list of the information that you are looking for, including proper notation. No notation is given in the question, so re-stating the sentence describing "the force directed from point $A$ to point $B$" is the correct answer. 

d) This question asks you to identify what it is that you are supposed to **Find** to solve the problem. This section must contain a concise list of the information that you are looking for, including proper notation. The problem statement does not ask for you to find a resultant vector, so this option is incorrect.