# STATICS-PSE08.01.04

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: Given, Problem solving
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Sean Maw
Learning Outcome: Recognize the correct given (known) information in a scenario, given a description (words and/or diagram)
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multi-select
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. Given a written description of the scenario
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-PSE08-01-c2dde0d253e3494f99127d957c55242a

# Question:

Consider the following scenario:

---

A support pin on the edge of a shelf supports three different forces. $F_1=700\;\mathrm{lb}$ is directed with an angle of $\phi_1=30\degree$, measured CCW from the negative $x$ axis. $F_2=400\;\mathrm{lb}$ is directed straight downward on the support pin. $F_3=600\;\mathrm{lb}$ is directed with an angle $\phi_3=45\degree$, measured CW from the positive $x$ axis. What is the resultant force vector experienced by the pin, expressed in Cartesian form?

---

From the list below, select **all the correct options** depicting the information that is **given** in the above problem.  

a) A support pin supporting three forces

b) Angles as shown

c) $F=700\;\mathrm{lb}$

d) $F_1=700\;\mathrm{lb}$

e) $\phi=30\degree$, measured CCW from the negative $x$ axis

f) $\phi_1=30\degree$, measured CCW from the negative $x$ axis

g) $F_2=400\;\mathrm{lb}$

h) $F_2=400$

i) $\phi_2=30\degree$, measured CCW from the positive $x$ axis

j) $f_3=600\;\mathrm{lb}$

k) $F_3=600\;\mathrm{lb}$

l) $\phi_3=45\degree$, measured CW from the negative $x$ axis

m) $\phi_3=45\degree$, measured CW from the positive $x$ axis

n) Coordinate axes as shown

# Answer:

a) A support pin supporting three forces

d) $F_1=700\;\mathrm{lb}$

f) $\phi_1=30\degree$, measured CCW from the negative $x$ axis

g) $F_2=400\;\mathrm{lb}$

k) $F_3=600\;\mathrm{lb}$

m) $\phi_3=45\degree$, measured CW from the positive $x$ axis

# Feedback:

Every piece of work submitted in engineering practice should be self-contained and effective in presenting the problem addressed and the analysis method used. For each problem in this course, your submitted work should be divided into five parts, each with its own clearly marked heading:

- Given
- Find
- Assumptions
- Analysis
- Conclusions

This question asks you to identify the correct information required in the **Given** section of your submission. This section must provide a clear text summary of the information provided in the problem statement and diagram (if any). This does not mean copying verbatim from the problem statement. All pertinent information and data must be extracted from the problem statement and listed. And there is no need to recopy complex diagrams provided with the problem statement, although additional annotations on the diagram may be appropriate.

The **Given** section is presented as a bulleted list. The bullet points will be of four general types:

- providing a brief description of the scenario being analyzed
- directing the reader to illustrations with key information
- listing variables and their values
- noting coordinate systems, if any are provided

**Common Errors** include:

- Simply stating "see figure" - more information should be stated, like "see figure for dimensions"
- Missing key information - a force, angle, mass, or other piece of information given in the problem statement
- Mis-stating key information - missing the units, stating incorrect unit, stating an incorrect value, etc.
- Mis-stating variable symbols - missing a subscript notation, using a capital letter instead of a lower case, using the wrong letter, etc.
- Mixing scalars and vectors - writing a vector as a scalar or vice versa is a different form of mis-stating information and misrepresents key values in the problem

In this problem, no angles or coordinate axes are shown, forces and angles should have identifying subscripts, forces should be capitalized and have units, and angles should be the correct value, measured from the correct axis, in the correct direction.