# STATICS-PSE08.01.03

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: Given, Problem solving
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Sean Maw
Learning Outcome: Recognize the correct given (known) information in a scenario, given a description (words and/or diagram)
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multi-select
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. Given a written description of the scenario
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-PSE08-01-c2dde0d253e3494f99127d957c55242a

# Question:

Consider the following scenario:

---

A ring (point $A$) is held in mid-air by a spring and two ropes.  The spring is attached to a vertical wall at point $C$, to the left of the ring.  One of the ropes is attached to another wall at point $B$, to the right of the ring.  The spring $AC$ is horizontal and has a spring constant of $k_{AC}=20\;\mathrm{N/m}$. The rope $AB$ is attached to the wall such that it has an angle of $\theta_{AB}=60\degree$, measured CCW from the positive $x$ axis. A second rope is attached to point $A$ and pulls with a force of $F=600\;\mathrm{N}$ at an angle of $\theta_F=45\degree$, measured CW from the positive $x$ axis. If rope $AB$ has a length of $0.5\;\mathrm{m}$ and the stretched length of spring $AC$ is $0.75\;\mathrm{m}$, what is the unstretched length of the spring without any tension on it?

---

From the list below, select **all the correct options** depicting the information that is **given** in the above problem.  

a) A spring and two ropes pull on a ring

b) Dimensions as shown

c) $k_{AC}=20\;\mathrm{N/m}$

d) $k_{AC}=20\;\mathrm{N/M}$

e) $\theta_{ab}=60\degree$, measured CCW from the positive $x$ axis

f) $\theta_{AB}=60\degree$, measured CCW from the positive $x$ axis

g) $F=500\;\mathrm{N}$

h) $F=600\;\mathrm{N}$

i) $\theta_F=45\degree$, measured CW from the positive $x$ axis

j) $\theta_F=45\degree$, measured CCW from the positive $x$ axis

k) $l_{AB}=0.5\;\mathrm{m}$

l) $l_{AC}=0.75\;\mathrm{m}$

m) Coordinate axes as shown

# Answer:

a) A spring and two ropes pull on a ring

c) $k_{AC}=20\;\mathrm{N/m}$

f) $\theta_{AB}=60\degree$, measured CCW from the positive $x$ axis

h) $F=600\;\mathrm{N}$

i) $\theta_F=45\degree$, measured CW from the positive $x$ axis

k) $l_{AB}=0.5\;\mathrm{m}$

l) $l_{AC}=0.75\;\mathrm{m}$

# Feedback:

Every piece of work submitted in engineering practice should be self-contained and effective in presenting the problem addressed and the analysis method used. For each problem in this course, your submitted work should be divided into five parts, each with its own clearly marked heading:

- Given
- Find
- Assumptions
- Analysis
- Conclusions

This question asks you to identify the correct information required in the **Given** section of your submission. This section must provide a clear text summary of the information provided in the problem statement and diagram (if any). This does not mean copying verbatim from the problem statement. All pertinent information and data must be extracted from the problem statement and listed. And there is no need to recopy complex diagrams provided with the problem statement, although additional annotations on the diagram may be appropriate.

The **Given** section is presented as a bulleted list. The bullet points will be of four general types:

- providing a brief description of the scenario being analyzed
- directing the reader to illustrations with key information
- listing variables and their values
- noting coordinate systems, if any are provided

**Common Errors** include:

- Simply stating "see figure" - more information should be stated, like "see figure for dimensions"
- Missing key information - a force, angle, mass, or other piece of information given in the problem statement
- Mis-stating key information - missing the units, stating incorrect unit, stating an incorrect value, etc.
- Mis-stating variable symbols - missing a subscript notation, using a capital letter instead of a lower case, using the wrong letter, etc.
- Mixing scalars and vectors - writing a vector as a scalar or vice versa is a different form of mis-stating information and misrepresents key values in the problem

In this problem, no dimensions or coordinate axes are shown, m is the symbol for metres (not M), subscripts should be capitalized, force magnitudes should be accurate, and angles should be measured in the correct direction from reference axes.