# STATICS-VDP01.05.04

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: 2D, Dot product, Projection
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Recognize the correct expression for the dot product of two 2D vectors
Margin of Error: N/A
Module: Module 1: Identify and solve statics problems for particles (P)
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: Yes
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Sig Fig: N/A
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 5. To determine the magnitude of a projection of a vector on an axis
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-VDP01-05-1884fe3e27be4595bf714834bbb7bd66

# Question:

For a 2D vector with a magnitude of $[A]$ directed at an angle of $[B]$° CCW from the positive $x$-axis, which one of the following expressions calculates the magnitude of the projection of this vector onto the negative y-axis?

### Variable Parameters

$[A]:$ Range (3, 10) in steps of 1

$[B]:$ Range (181, 269 ) in steps of 1

# Answer:

a. $[A]$

b. $[B]$

c.  $[A]\cos([B]^\circ)$

d.  $[A]\cos(270^\circ-[B]^\circ)$

# Feedback:

a. This is just the magnitude of the vector. To calculate the projection of a vector onto an axis, use the magnitude of this vector times the cosine of the angle between the vector and the axis. In this question, the angle is measured CCW from the positive x-axis. So the angle between this vector and the negative y-axis should be $(270^\circ-[B]^\circ)$.

b. This is the angle between the vector and the positive x-axis. To calculate the projection of a vector onto an axis, use the magnitude of this vector times the cosine of the angle between the vector and the axis. In this question, the angle is measured CCW from the positive x-axis. So the angle between this vector and the negative y-axis should be $(270^\circ-[B]^\circ)$.

c. To calculate the projection of a vector onto an axis, use the magnitude of this vector times the cosine of the angle between the vector and the axis. In this question, the angle is measured CCW from the positive x-axis. So the angle between this vector and the negative y-axis should be $(270^\circ-[B]^\circ)$.

d. Good job! To calculate the projection of a vector onto an axis, use the magnitude of this vector times the cosine of the angle between the vector and the axis. In this question, the angle is measured CCW from the positive x-axis. So the angle between this vector and the negative y-axis should be $(270^\circ-[B]^\circ)$.