# STATICS-MPA05.02.03

Automatic Grading: Yes
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Recognize the notation for reporting the vector formulation of a moment of a force about a point in 2D, given a diagram and/or text
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. text
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-MPA05-02-f6d14c0311624d1c9f0f6491ee7b2477
Topic/ Unit: 2. Calculate the moment of a force about a point or an axis in 2D and 3D using vector and scalar formulations (MPA)

# Question:

A force of 500 N is applied through a rope attached to a strut.  The struct is attached to a wall. The strut will want to rotate counter-clockwise as a result of the force.  If the magnitude of the moment about point $O$ at the junction of the strut and wall is 1200 N∙m, select the correct vector representation of the moment.

a) $\overrightarrow{M}_O=\{1200\,\mathrm{N\cdot m}\}\hat{k}$

b) $\overrightarrow{M}_O=\{500\,\mathrm{N\cdot m}\}\hat{k}$

c) $\overrightarrow{M}_O=\{1200\,\mathrm{N\cdot m}\}$

d) $\overrightarrow{M}_O=\{-1200\,\mathrm{N\cdot m}\}\hat{k}$

# Answer:

a) $\overrightarrow{M}_O=\{1200\,\mathrm{N\cdot m}\}\hat{k}$

# Feedback:

a) Well done! In this 2D problem, the force vector and the moment arm are both in the xy plane, so the cross product between them results in a vector along the z axis, reported using the unit vector $\hat{k}$. Because the sense of the moment is counter-clockwise, the sign of the value is positive. Remember to always report your answer with correct units!

b) The value in this option is incorrect - note that the **force applied** has a magnitude of 500 N, but the moment is stated later. Because the sense of the moment is counter-clockwise, the sign of the value is positive. Otherwise the unit vector notation is correct! In this 2D problem, the force vector and the moment arm are both in the xy plane, so the cross product between them results in a vector along the z axis, reported using the unit vector $\hat{k}$.

c) This option is missing a unit vector. In a 2D problem like this, the force vector and the moment arm are both in the xy plane, so the cross product between them results in a vector along the z axis, reported using the unit vector $\hat{k}$. Because the sense of the moment is counter-clockwise, the sign of the value is positive, which is correctly stated here.

d) The sign in this option is incorrect. Because the sense of the moment is counter-clockwise, the sign of the value should be positive. Otherwise the unit vector notation is correct! In this 2D problem, the force vector and the moment arm are both in the xy plane, so the cross product between them results in a vector along the z axis, reported using the unit vector $\hat{k}$.