# STATICS-MPA07.01.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Recognize the determinant form of the vector moment calculation for a force about a point in 3D, for Cartesian position and force vectors
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. the determinant
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-MPA07-01-8146e6f27aec4474aa257073463d0020
Topic/ Unit: 2. Calculate the moment of a force about a point or an axis in 2D and 3D using vector and scalar formulations (MPA)

# Question:

Determining the moment about point O in a 3D problem requires taking the cross product between a position vector depicting the moment arm, and the force vector. If each vector is expressed in Cartesian coordinates as such:

$$\overrightarrow{r}=\alpha\hat{i}+\beta\hat{j}+\gamma\hat{k}\\\overrightarrow{F}=U\hat{i}+V\hat{j}+W\hat{k}$$

then select the correct representation of the determinant form of the vector moment calculation:

a) $\overrightarrow{M}_O=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\U&V&W\\\alpha&\beta&\gamma\\\end{vmatrix}$

b) $\overrightarrow{M}_O=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\r_x&r_y&r_z\\F_x&F_y&F_z\\\end{vmatrix}$

c) $\overrightarrow{M}_O=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\\alpha&\beta&\gamma\\U&V&W\\\end{vmatrix}$

d) $\overrightarrow{M}_O=\begin{vmatrix}\alpha&\beta&\gamma\\U&V&W\\\end{vmatrix}$

# Answer:

c) $\overrightarrow{M}_O=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\\alpha&\beta&\gamma\\U&V&W\\\end{vmatrix}$

# Feedback:

a) Close! The determinant representing the vector formulation of the moment about point O comes from the cross product $\overrightarrow{r}\times\overrightarrow{F}$. The determinant in this option depicts the cross product in the wrong order, $\overrightarrow{F}\times\overrightarrow{r}$. In other words, the $\overrightarrow{r}$ and $\overrightarrow{F}$ vectors are in the wrong rows in this option.

b) While this option is technically correct, it is important to respect the variables given in the problem. The vectors in this problem are given with components in $\alpha$, $\beta$, $\gamma$, and $U$, $V$, $W$, instead of $r_x$, $r_y$, $r_z$, and $F_x$, $F_y$, $F_z$. The matrix for the determinant should be set up with the variables presented. 

c) Correct! The determinant representing the vector formulation of the moment about point O comes from the cross product $\overrightarrow{r}\times\overrightarrow{F}$. We know that the determinant for the moment vector has three rows: the first made from the unit vectors, the second row is the position vector, and the third row is the force vector, with $xyz$ components placed from left to right. Remember to use the variables given in the problem statement. 

d) While this option has the correct placement of the $\overrightarrow{r}$ and $\overrightarrow{F}$ vectors, it is missing the first row of unit vectors. Remember that the determinant for the moment vector has three rows: the first made from the unit vectors $\hat{i}$, $\hat{j}$, $\hat{k}$, the second row is the position vector, and the third row is the force vector, with $xyz$ components placed from left to right.