# STATICS-VCP02.02.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: 2D, cross product, expression
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: recognize the correct mathematical expression for the cross product of two vectors
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. 3D vectors
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-VCP02-02-6e056a64ddb348c2885353fda7e39003
Topic/ Unit: 1. Calculate cross products of 2D and 3D vectors (VCP)

# Question:

From the options below, select the correct representation for the mathematical expression of the cross product between two 3D vectors, $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$ such that:

$$\overrightarrow{A}=A_x\hat{i}+A_y\hat{j}+A_z\hat{k}
\\\overrightarrow{B}=B_x\hat{i}+B_y\hat{j}+B_z\hat{k}\\$$

a) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_yB_z-A_zB_y)\hat{i}-(A_xB_z-A_zB_x)\hat{j}+(A_xB_y-A_yB_x)\hat{k}$

b) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_yB_z-A_zB_y)\hat{i}+(A_xB_z-A_zB_x)\hat{j}+(A_xB_y-A_yB_x)\hat{k}$

c) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_yB_z+A_zB_y)\hat{i}-(A_xB_z+A_zB_x)\hat{j}+(A_xB_y+A_yB_x)\hat{k}$

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_xB_x-A_xB_x)\hat{i}-(A_yB_y-A_yB_y)\hat{j}+(A_zB_z-A_zB_z)\hat{k}$

# Answer:

a) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_yB_z-A_zB_y)\hat{i}-(A_xB_z-A_zB_x)\hat{j}+(A_xB_y-A_yB_x)\hat{k}$

# Feedback:

a) Correct! The result of the determinant of a 3 x 3 matrix is written out term-by-term in this form. Notice the pattern of $xyz$ components, the subtractions inside each bracketed term, and the signs of the $\hat{i}$, $\hat{j}$, and $\hat{k}$ terms. 

b) While the pattern of the $xyz$ components within the brackets is correct in this option, watch the signs of the $\hat{i}$, $\hat{j}$, and $\hat{k}$ terms. 

c) While the pattern of the $xyz$ components within the brackets is correct in this option, pay attention to the signs inside the brackets. The result of a 2 x 2 determinant should find the *difference* between two products, not the sum. 

d) Notice the pattern of the $xyz$ components in this option. They are not consistent with the results of the determinant of a 3 x 3 matrix. There should not be any $x$ component multiplied by another $x$ component, for example.