# STATICS-RBSE06.02.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Recognize the governing equations of equilibrium for rigid body equilibrium in 3D
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. scalar
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-RBSE06-02-6671f193f4254548be169afd33f45ca5
Topic/ Unit: 4. Determine unknown forces and moments that will achieve static equilibrium (2D and 3D) for simple rigid bodies (RBSE)

# Question:

From the options below, select the option that **does contain** the correct combination of equations that describe 3D rigid body static equilibrium in terms of **scalar** notation: 

---

---

a)

$\sum (F_x + F_y + F_z)=0$

$\sum (M_x + M_y + M_z)=0$

---

b)

$\begin{matrix}\sum \overrightarrow{F}_x=0&\sum \overrightarrow{M}_x=0\\\sum \overrightarrow{F}_y=0&\sum \overrightarrow{M}_y=0\\\sum \overrightarrow{F}_z=0&\sum \overrightarrow{M}_z=0\\\end{matrix}$

---

c)

$\begin{matrix}\sum F_x=0&\sum M_A=0\\\sum F_y=0&\sum M_B=0\\\sum F_z=0&\sum M_C=0\\\end{matrix}$

---

d)

$\begin{matrix}\sum F_x=0&\sum M_x=0\\\sum F_y=0&\sum M_y=0\\\sum F_z=0&\sum M_z=0\\\end{matrix}$

---

# Answer:

d)

$\begin{matrix}\sum F_x=0&\sum M_x=0\\\sum F_y=0&\sum M_y=0\\\sum F_z=0&\sum M_z=0\\\end{matrix}$

---

# Feedback:

a) The sum of all the scalar force components and moments must equal zero **separately**. They cannot be combined in one equation as shown here.  Look for an option that demonstrates the sum of each component equaling zero individually. 

b) Close! This option is actually a correct combination of equations for equilibrium in 3D written in **vector** notation. This question is asking for the equations of equilibrium in **scalar** notation. 

c) This option has the wrong subscripts on the moment variables. While it is acceptable in 2D to find the equilibrium state of the moments around three points, $A$, $B$, and $C$, when in 3D we want to find the sum of the moments about **each axis**. The subscripts on the moments should be written as $M_x$, $M_y$, and $M_y$.

d) Well done! If the sums of the scalar force components in the $x$, $y$, and $z$ directions equal zero, **and** the sum of all scalar moments about each $x$, $y$, and $z$ axis equal zero, then the rigid body is experiencing static equilibrium in 3D.