# STATICS-RBSE06.01.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Recognize the governing equations of equilibrium for rigid body equilibrium in 3D
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. vector
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-RBSE06-01-d77636fb72fa41dc819ce058c5e3182d
Topic/ Unit: 4. Determine unknown forces and moments that will achieve static equilibrium (2D and 3D) for simple rigid bodies (RBSE)

# Question:

From the options below, select the option that **does not represent** the correct combination of equations that describe 3D rigid body static equilibrium in terms of **vector** notation: 

---

---

a) $\sum{F}_x + \sum{F}_y + \sum{F}_z=0$

$\sum{M}_x + \sum{M}_y + \sum{M}_z=0$

---

b) 

$\begin{matrix}\sum \overrightarrow{F}_x=0&\sum \overrightarrow{M}_x=0\\\sum \overrightarrow{F}_y=0&\sum \overrightarrow{M}_y=0\\\sum \overrightarrow{F}_z=0&\sum \overrightarrow{M}_z=0\\\end{matrix}$

---

c) $\sum \overrightarrow{F}=\sum{F}_x\hat{i} + \sum{F}_y\hat{j} + \sum{F}_z\hat{k}=0$

$\sum \overrightarrow{M}=\sum{M}_x\hat{i} + \sum{M}_y\hat{j} + \sum{M}_z\hat{k}=0$

---

# Answer:

a) $\sum{F}_x + \sum{F}_y + \sum{F}_z=0$

$\sum{M}_x + \sum{M}_y + \sum{M}_z=0$

---

# Feedback:

a) Correct! This option appears similar to the correct option containing Cartesian vector notation, but notice that it is missing the unit vectors in each term. Because it is stated as a sum of scalar components, this is incorrect.  Each term needs to equal zero independently.

---

b) This option contains one of the **correct** combinations of vector equations of equilibrium for a rigid body in 3D. If the sums of the component force vectors in the $x$, $y$, and $z$ directions equal zero, **and** the sum of all vector moments about each $x$, $y$, and $z$ axis equal zero, then the rigid body is experiencing static equilibrium. 

Choose an option that **does not** contain a correct combination of the vector equations required for static equilibrium of a rigid body in 3D. 

---

c) This option contains one of the **correct** combinations of vector equations of equilibrium for a rigid body in 3D. If the sums of all force vectors equals zero, **and** the sum of all vector moments equal zero, then the rigid body is experiencing static equilibrium. Note that the collapsed vector notation in this option can also be written in terms of Cartesian vector components. 

Choose an option that **does not** contain a correct combination of the vector equations required for static equilibrium of a rigid body in 3D.