# STATICS-RBSE01.02.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: particle, rigid body
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Differentiate between a particle and a rigid body, given a diagram or description
Margin of Error: N/A
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Sig Fig: N/A
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. description (convergence or non-convergence of forces)
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-RBSE01-02-6c301c95765a4081af0b7b4f6633e1d1
Topic/ Unit: 4. Determine unknown forces and moments that will achieve static equilibrium (2D and 3D) for simple rigid bodies (RBSE)

# Question:

From the options below, select the **incorrect** statement.

# Answer:

a. In reality, a rigid body does not deform or change shape. 

b. A rigid body can be considered as a combination of a large number of particles in which all the particles remain at a fixed distance from one another. 

c. A rigid body is an idealization of a body that does not deform or change shape.

d. When solving rigid-body equilibrium problems, we do not have to consider the type of material from which the body is made as long as the body is reasonably stiff. 

# Feedback:

a. Well done! This is an incorrect statement. In reality, a rigid body can deform, but the deformation is small enough to be neglected. 

b. This is the formal definition of a rigid body. Thus, this statement is correct, but you are asked to pick the incorrect one. 

c. A rigid body is an important idealization used in mechanics in order to simplify application of the theory.  It is assumed that a rigid body does not deform or change shape, so we do not have to consider the type of material from which the body is made. Thus, this statement is correct, but you are asked to pick the incorrect one. 

d. A rigid body is an important idealization used in mechanics in order to simplify application of the theory.  It is assumed that a rigid body does not deform or change shape, so we do not have to consider the type of material from which the body is made as long as the body is reasonably stiff.  Thus, this statement is correct, but you are asked to pick the incorrect one.