# STATICS-RBSE01.02.03

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: particle, rigid body
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Differentiate between a particle and a rigid body, given a diagram or description
Margin of Error: N/A
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Sig Fig: N/A
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. description (convergence or non-convergence of forces)
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-RBSE01-02-6c301c95765a4081af0b7b4f6633e1d1
Topic/ Unit: 4. Determine unknown forces and moments that will achieve static equilibrium (2D and 3D) for simple rigid bodies (RBSE)

# Question:

From the options below, select the **incorrect** statement.

# Answer:

a. A particle has a mass, but a size that can be neglected. 

b. All the forces acting on a particle must converge to a single point. 

c. A rigid body can be considered as a particle under certain conditions.

d. A particle must be physically small. 

# Feedback:

a. This is the definition of a particle. Thus, this statement is correct, but you are asked to pick the incorrect one. 

b. This describes the necessary condition for an object to be considered as a particle. Thus, this statement is correct, but you are asked to pick the incorrect one. 

c. The concepts of rigid bodies and particles are not in conflict with each other. A rigid body can be considered as a particle as long as all the forces acting on the body converge to a single point. Thus, this statement is correct, but you are asked to pick the incorrect one. 

d. Well done! A particle is not necessarily a small object, but its physical dimensions are of no significance to the analysis. For example, the earth can be modeled as a particle when studying its orbit motion.