# STATICS-CMC07.01.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: couple, free vector, moment
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Define the concept of a free vector
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. which vectors are free vectors
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-CMC07-01-b67040b09bc24afd9187e91c74670ad5
Topic/ Unit: 3. Incorporate couples in moment calculations (CMC)

# Question:

Which of the following options can be described as a **free vector?**

a) Position vector

b) Couple moment vector

c) Moment vector

# Answer:

b) Couple moment vector

# Feedback:

a) A position vector is **not** a free vector since the locations of both the head and the tail of the vector matter very much. We can describe something as a **free vector** if the point of application (or calculation) of the vector does not matter where it occurs i.e. it can be applied at any point on a body or can be calculated at any point on a body. 

b) Correct! A couple moment is a **free vector** i.e. it has magnitude and direction and can act at *any point* on a body. 

c) A moment vector is **not** a free vector since its location determines its magnitude and sense.  It is created by a force acting at a distance away from a point or axis of rotation.  If we move the point or axis, then the moment can change.  We can describe something as a **free vector** if the point of application (or calculation) of the vector does not matter where it occurs i.e. it can be applied at any point on a body or can be calculated at any point on a body.