# STATICS-VCP02.01.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: 2D, cross product, expression
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Caelia Gardiner
Learning Outcome: recognize the correct mathematical expression for the cross product of two vectors
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. 2D vectors                                                                          
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-VCP02-01-d4195d5b5b0f473799b0dc1412cf383c
Topic/ Unit: 1. Calculate cross products of 2D and 3D vectors (VCP)

# Question:

From the options below, select the correct representation for the mathematical expression of the cross product between two 2D vectors, $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$ such that:

$$\overrightarrow{A}=A_x\hat{i}+A_y\hat{j}\\\overrightarrow{B}=B_x\hat{i}+B_y\hat{j}\\$$

a) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_xB_y+A_yB_x)\hat{k}$

b) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_xB_x-A_yB_y)\hat{k}$

c) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_xB_y-A_yB_x)\hat{k}$

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_xB_y-A_yB_x)$

# Answer:

c) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_xB_y-A_yB_x)\hat{k}$

# Feedback:

a) The term-by-term representation of the 2D vector cross product is derived by finding the determinant of a 2 x 2 matrix composed of the original vectors. The determinant of a 2 x 2 matrix is found by *subtracting* the second product from the first, not adding. 

b) The term-by-term representation of the 2D vector cross product is derived by finding the determinant of a 2 x 2 matrix composed of the original vectors. The determinant of a 2 x 2 matrix is found by multiplying the $x$ component of the first vector by the $y$ component of the second for the first term, and vice versa for the second term. 

c) Correct! The term-by-term representation of the 2D vector cross product is derived by finding the determinant of a 2 x 2 matrix composed of the original vectors. The determinant of a 2 x 2 matrix is found by multiplying the $x$ component of the first vector by the $y$ component of the second for the first term, vice versa for the second term, and then subtracting the second from the first term. 

d) A cross product between two vectors in the $x$-$y$ plane always results in a **vector** in the $z$ direction (represented by the $\hat{k}$ unit vector). This answer doesn't have a unit vector after the scalar component, and therefore is only a scalar.  You need to choose an answer with a unit vector!