# STATICS-RBSE01.02.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: particle, rigid body
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Differentiate between a particle and a rigid body, given a diagram or description
Margin of Error: N/A
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Zoe
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Sig Fig: N/A
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. description (convergence or non-convergence of forces)
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-RBSE01-02-6c301c95765a4081af0b7b4f6633e1d1
Topic/ Unit: 4. Determine unknown forces and moments that will achieve static equilibrium (2D and 3D) for simple rigid bodies (RBSE)

# Question:

From the options below, select the best definition for a rigid body.

# Answer:

a. A rigid body has a mass, but a size that can be neglected. 

b. All the forces acting on a rigid body must converge to a single point. 

c. A rigid body can be considered as a combination of a large number of particles in which all the particles remain at a fixed distance from one another. 

d. A rigid body must be physically small. 

# Feedback:

a. This is the definition of a particle, not a rigid body.

b. This describes the necessary condition for a body to be considered as a particle.

c. Good job! This is the formal definition of a rigid body.

d. A rigid body does not need to be small, but must be relatively stiff and does not deform significantly when forces are applied.