# STATICS-VCP07.01.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: 3D, cross product, determinant
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: recognize the determinant form of the cross product of two 3D vectors
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. determinant (numbers and letters)                                                
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-VCP07-01-5976815b881f432c99f721eb7f7024d9
Topic/ Unit: 1. Calculate cross products of 2D and 3D vectors (VCP)

# Question:

Consider two 3D vectors, $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$, such that:

$$\overrightarrow{A}=A_x\hat{i}+A_y\hat{j}+A_z\hat{k}\\\overrightarrow{B}=B_x\hat{i}+B_y\hat{j}+B_z\hat{k}\\$$

From the options below, select the correct representation of the 3 x 3 matrix needed to calculate the determinant:

a) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}A_x&A_y&A_z\\B_x&B_y&B_z\\\end{vmatrix}$

b) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}x&y&z\\A_x&A_y&A_z\\B_x&B_y&B_z\\\end{vmatrix}$

c) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\B_x&B_y&B_z\\A_x&A_y&A_z\\\end{vmatrix}$

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\A_x&A_y&A_z\\B_x&B_y&B_z\\\end{vmatrix}$

# Answer:

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\A_x&A_y&A_z\\B_x&B_y&B_z\\\end{vmatrix}$

# Feedback:

a) When setting up the 3 x 3 matrix for 3D vectors, the unit vectors must be included as the first row. The first vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ is then set up in the second row, and the second vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ is set in the third row, with components placed left to right. This option is missing a row. 

b) When setting up the 3 x 3 matrix for 3D vectors, the unit vectors must be included as the first row. The first vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ is then set up in the second row, and the second vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ is set in the third row, with components placed left to right.  The first row in this option is not stated using the correct notation i.e. these are not unit vectors. 

c) When setting up the 3 x 3 matrix for 3D vectors, the unit vectors must be included as the first row. The first vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ is then set up in the second row, and the second vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ is set in the third row, with components placed left to right. This option has the order of the $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$ vectors reversed. 

d) Correct! When setting up the 3 x 3 matrix for 3D vectors, the unit vectors must be included as the first row. The first vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ is then set up in the second row, and the second vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ is set in the third row, with components placed left to right. Notice each column corresponds to a direction in the 3D coordinate system (column 1 = $x$ direction, column 2 = $y$ direction, column 3 = $z$ direction).