# STATICS-VCP04.02.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: 2D, cross product, dot product
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: distinguish dot and cross products and their characteristics
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. scalar/vector nature                                                           
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-VCP04-02-ddb3983c48f04f97803ad8e536581bbb
Topic/ Unit: 1. Calculate cross products of 2D and 3D vectors (VCP)

# Question:

Consider two 2D vectors, $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$, that only exist in the $x$-$y$ plane. Vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ has magnitude $A$ and vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ has magnitude $B$. The angle between the two vectors is denoted by $\theta$. 

From the options below, select the correct representation for the mathematical expression of the cross product between vectors $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$:

a) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=AB\sin\theta$

b) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\cos\theta)\hat{k}$

c) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=AB\cos\theta$

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\sin\theta)\hat{k}$

# Answer:

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\sin\theta)\hat{k}$

# Feedback:

a) While the expression given in this option is correct, remember that the result of a cross product is a **vector**. Therefore, the correct answer must include a unit vector. 

b) While it is correct that this result is stated with the unit vector $\overrightarrow{k}$, the trigonometric term is not quite right. When calculating the **dot product**, we use the cosine between two angles. When calculating the magnitude of the **cross product**, we use something different. 

c) The expression given in this option is actually the correct representation for a **dot product**. Remember that the result of a cross product is a **vector**, meaning it must include a unit vector, and it requires finding the **sine** of the angle between them. 

d) Correct! The magnitude of the cross product between two vectors in the $x$-$y$ plane can be found using the **sine** of the angle between them, unlike the dot product, which involves the **cosine** of the angle. Also, the result of a cross product is a **vector**, not a scalar, and therefore we need to include the unit vector $\overrightarrow{k}$.