# STATICS-RBSE06.02.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Recognize the governing equations of equilibrium for rigid body equilibrium in 3D
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. scalar
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-RBSE06-02-6671f193f4254548be169afd33f45ca5
Topic/ Unit: 4. Determine unknown forces and moments that will achieve static equilibrium (2D and 3D) for simple rigid bodies (RBSE)

# Question:

From the options below, select the option that **does contain** the correct combination of equations that describe 3D rigid body static equilibrium in terms of **scalar** notation: 

---

---

a)

$\begin{matrix}\sum \overrightarrow{F}_x=0&\sum \overrightarrow{M}_x=0\\\sum \overrightarrow{F}_y=0&\sum \overrightarrow{M}_y=0\\\sum \overrightarrow{F}_z=0&\sum \overrightarrow{M}_z=0\\\end{matrix}$

---

b)

$\begin{matrix}\sum F_x=0&\sum M_x=0\\\sum F_y=0&\sum M_y=0\\\sum F_z=0&\sum M_z=0\\\end{matrix}$

---

c)

$\sum F_x + \sum F_y + \sum F_z=0$

$\sum M_x + \sum M_y + \sum M_z=0$

---

d)

$\begin{matrix}\sum F_x=0&\sum M_x=0\\\sum F_y=0&\sum M_y=0\\\end{matrix}$

---

# Answer:

b)

$\begin{matrix}\sum F_x=0&\sum M_x=0\\\sum F_y=0&\sum M_y=0\\\sum F_z=0&\sum M_z=0\\\end{matrix}$

# Feedback:

a) Close! This option is actually a correct combination of equations for equilibrium in 3D written in **vector** notation. This question is asking for the equations of equilibrium in **scalar** notation. 

b) Well done! If the sums of the scalar force components in the $x$, $y$, and $z$ directions equal zero, **and** the sum of all scalar moments about each $x$, $y$, and $z$ axis equal zero, then the rigid body is experiencing static equilibrium in 3D.

c) The sum of all the scalar force components and moments must equal zero **separately**. They cannot be combined in one equation as shown here.  Look for an option that demonstrates the sum of each component equaling zero individually. 

d) This option is almost correct but it is missing a direction. The question is asking for the governing equations of static equilibrium for a rigid body in **3D**, so all three directions must be included, including the $z$ component.