# STATICS-VCP02.01.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: 2D, cross product, expression
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: recognize the correct mathematical expression for the cross product of two vectors
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. 2D vectors                                                                          
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-VCP02-01-d4195d5b5b0f473799b0dc1412cf383c
Topic/ Unit: 1. Calculate cross products of 2D and 3D vectors (VCP)

# Question:

From the options below, select the correct representation for the mathematical expression of the cross product of two 2D vectors, $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$, where:

$$\overrightarrow{A}=A_x\hat{i}+A_y\hat{j}\\\overrightarrow{B}=B_x\hat{i}+B_y\hat{j}\\$$

a) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_xB_y-A_yB_x)\hat{k}$

b) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_xB_y-A_yB_x)\hat{j}$

c) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_xB_y-A_yB_x)\hat{i}$

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_xB_y-A_yB_x)$

# Answer:

a) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(A_xB_y-A_yB_x)\hat{k}$

# Feedback:

a) Correct! The term-by-term representation (magnitude) of the 2D vector cross product is derived by finding the determinant of a 2 x 2 matrix composed of the original vectors. The direction of the cross product must be along unit vector $\hat{k}$, according to the right hand rule.

b) While the term-by-term representation of the magnitude of the cross product is correct here, the direction is not. Because of the right hand rule, the result of a cross product between two vectors in the $x$-$y$ plane must be directed along the $z$ axis. 

c) While the term-by-term representation of the magnitude of the cross product is correct here, the direction is not. Because of the right hand rule, the result of a cross product between two vectors in the $x$-$y$ plane must be directed along the $z$ axis. 

d) While the term-by-term representation of the magnitude of the cross product is correct here, the result is missing a direction. Remember that the result of a **cross product** is a vector. Because of the right hand rule, the cross product between two vectors in the $x$-$y$ plane must be directed along the $z$ axis.