# STATICS-VCP02.01.03

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: 2D, cross product, expression
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: recognize the correct mathematical expression for the cross product of two vectors
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. 2D vectors                                                                          
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-VCP02-01-d4195d5b5b0f473799b0dc1412cf383c
Topic/ Unit: 1. Calculate cross products of 2D and 3D vectors (VCP)

# Question:

From the options below, select the correct representation for the mathematical expression of the cross product between two 2D vectors, $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$, where they have a respective magnitude of $A$ and $B$ and an angle between them of $\theta$:

a) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\cos\theta)\hat{k}$

b) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\tan\theta)\hat{k}$

c) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\sin\theta)\hat{k}$

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\sin^2\theta)\hat{k}$

# Answer:

b) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\sin\theta)\hat{k}$

# Feedback:

a) While this expression of the 2D vector cross product does include the magnitudes of each vector, the trigonometric function is incorrect.  Recall that the **dot product** between two vectors requires the use of **cosine**, but the cross product needs something different. 

b) While this expression of the 2D vector cross product does include the magnitudes of each vector, the trigonometric function is incorrect.  Recall that the **dot product** between two vectors requires the use of **cosine**, but the cross product needs something different. 

c) Correct! This expression of the 2D vector cross product includes the magnitudes of each vector and the sine of the angle between them. The direction of the cross product must be along unit vector $\hat{k}$, according to the right hand rule.

d) While this expression of the 2D vector cross product does include the magnitudes of each vector, the trigonometric portion isn't quite correct. The $\sin\theta$ term does not need to be squared to find the cross product.