# STATICS-RBSE05.02.03

Automatic Grading: Yes
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Recognize the governing equations of equilibrium for rigid body equilibrium in 2D
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. scalar
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-RBSE05-02-6c545a5dbf1747d4a778c81495217d2d
Topic/ Unit: 4. Determine unknown forces and moments that will achieve static equilibrium (2D and 3D) for simple rigid bodies (RBSE)

# Question:

From the options below, select the one that **does not** contain all the necessary equations that describe 2D rigid body static equilibrium in terms of **scalar** notation: 

---

---

a) $\sum M_A=0$

$\sum M_B=0$

$\sum M_C=0$

*Given that points $A$, $B$, and $C$ do not lie on the same line

---

b) $\sum F_x=0$

$\sum M_A=0$

$\sum M_B=0$

*Given that the line passing through points $A$ and $B$ is not parallel to the $y$ axis

---

c) $\sum \overrightarrow{F}_x=0$

$\sum \overrightarrow{F}_y=0$

$\sum \overrightarrow{M}_A=0$

---

d) $\sum F_x=0$

$\sum F_y=0$

$\sum M_A=0$

---

# Answer:

c) $\sum \overrightarrow{F}_x=0$

$\sum \overrightarrow{F}_y=0$

$\sum \overrightarrow{M}_A=0$

---

# Feedback:

a) This option contains one of the **correct** combinations of scalar equations of equilibrium for a rigid body in 2D.  If the sum of all the scalar moments about three separate points $A$, $B$, and $C$ equals zero, then the rigid body is experiencing static equilibrium (as long as the points $A$, $B$, and $C$ do not lie on the same line). 

Choose an option that **does not** contain a correct combination of the scalar equations required for static equilibrium of a rigid body in 2D. 

---

b) This option contains one of the **correct** combinations of scalar equations of equilibrium for a rigid body in 2D. If the sum of all the scalar force components in the $x$ direction equals zero, **and** the sum of all scalar moments about two separate points $A$ and $B$ equals zero, then the rigid body is experiencing static equilibrium (as long as the line between points $A$ and $B$ is not parallel to the $y$ axis). 

Choose an option that **does not** contain a correct combination of the scalar equations required for static equilibrium of a rigid body in 2D. 

---

c) Well done! While this option has the correct combination of equations, they are stated as vectors with the $\overrightarrow{}$ symbol, and not as scalars. This problem asked for the equations of equilibrium in **scalar notation**. 

---

d) This option contains one of the **correct** combinations of scalar equations of equilibrium for a rigid body in 2D. If the sum of all the scalar force components in the $x$ direction and the $y$ direction equal zero **separately**, and the sum of all scalar moments about a point equals zero, then the rigid body is experiencing static equilibrium. 

Choose an option that **does not** contain a correct combination of the scalar equations required for static equilibrium of a rigid body in 2D. 

---