# STATICS-MPA05.02.02

Automatic Grading: Yes
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Recognize the notation for reporting the vector formulation of a moment of a force about a point in 2D, given a diagram and/or text
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 2. text
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-MPA05-02-f6d14c0311624d1c9f0f6491ee7b2477
Topic/ Unit: 2. Calculate the moment of a force about a point or an axis in 2D and 3D using vector and scalar formulations (MPA)

# Question:

A force vector of 100 N is applied to a strut. The strut will want to rotate clockwise around point $O$ as a result of the force. Both the force vector and the moment arm exist in the $xy$  plane. If the magnitude of the moment created is 300 N∙m, select the correct vector representation of the moment.

a) $M_O=\{-300\,\mathrm{N\cdot m}\}\hat{k}$

b) $\overrightarrow{M}_O=\{300\,\mathrm{N\cdot m}\}\hat{k}$

c) $\overrightarrow{M}=\{-300\,\mathrm{N\cdot m}\}\hat{k}$

d) $\overrightarrow{M}_O=\{-300\,\mathrm{N\cdot m}\}\hat{k}$

# Answer:

d) $\overrightarrow{M}_O=\{-300\,\mathrm{N\cdot m}\}\hat{k}$

# Feedback:

a) This option is missing a vector notation. Make sure to include the arrow above any variables that represent a vector quantity, like the moment vector $\overrightarrow{M}_O$. Otherwise the unit vector notation is correct! In this 2D problem, the force vector and the moment arm are both in the xy plane, so the cross product between them results in a vector along the z axis, reported using the unit vector $\hat{k}$.

b) The sign in this option is incorrect. Because the sense of the moment is clockwise, the sign of the value is negative. Otherwise the unit vector notation is correct! In this 2D problem, the force vector and the moment arm are both in the xy plane, so the cross product between them results in a vector along the z axis, reported using the unit vector $\hat{k}$.

c) This option is missing a subscript in the first variable. The subscript in the variable $\overrightarrow{M}$ is important to denote which point the moment is about, since there may be multliple rotation points in a problem. Otherwise the unit vector notation is correct! In this 2D problem, the force vector and the moment arm are both in the xy plane, so the cross product between them results in a vector along the z axis, reported using the unit vector $\hat{k}$.

d) Well done! In this 2D problem, the force vector and the moment arm are both in the xy plane, so the cross product between them results in a vector along the z axis, reported using the unit vector $\hat{k}$. Because the sense of the moment is clockwise, the sign of the value is negative. Remember to always report your answer with correct units!