# STATICS-VCP07.01.04

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: 3D, cross product, determinant
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: recognize the determinant form of the cross product of two 3D vectors
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. determinant (numbers and letters)                                                
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-VCP07-01-5976815b881f432c99f721eb7f7024d9
Topic/ Unit: 1. Calculate cross products of 2D and 3D vectors (VCP)

# Question:

Consider two 3D vectors, $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$, such that:

$$\overrightarrow{A}=-\hat{i}+6\hat{j}\\\overrightarrow{B}=2\hat{i}+7\hat{j}-3\hat{k}\\$$

From the options below, select the correct representation of the 3 x 3 matrix needed to calculate the determinant:

a) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&-1&2\\\hat{j}&6&7\\\hat{k}&0&-3\\\end{vmatrix}$

b) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\-1&6&0\\2&7&-3\\\end{vmatrix}$

c) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\1&6&0\\2&7&3\\\end{vmatrix}$

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\-1&0&6\\2&7&-3\\\end{vmatrix}$

# Answer:

b) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\-1&6&0\\2&7&-3\\\end{vmatrix}$

# Feedback:

a) When setting up the 3 x 3 matrix for 3D vectors, the unit vectors must be included as the first row. The first vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ is then set up in the second row, and the second vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ is set in the third row, with components placed left to right. This option has mistakenly placed the vectors as columns instead of rows. 

b) Correct! When setting up the 3 x 3 matrix for 3D vectors, the unit vectors must be included as the first row. The first vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ is then set up in the second row, and the second vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ is set in the third row, with components placed left to right.  Notice the negative signs are retained, and that the "missing" component in vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ is actually represented by a zero.

c) When setting up the 3 x 3 matrix for 3D vectors, the unit vectors must be included as the first row. The first vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ is then set up in the second row, and the second vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ is set in the third row, with components placed left to right.  Watch that you include all negative signs with the appropriate terms.

d) When setting up the 3 x 3 matrix for 3D vectors, the unit vectors must be included as the first row. The first vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ is then set up in the second row, and the second vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ is set in the third row, with components placed left to right. While there should be a zero in the second row, check carefully which position it should be in. The $\hat{k}$ component is missing from vector $\overrightarrow{A}$.