# STATICS-RBSE05.01.03

Automatic Grading: Yes
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: Recognize the governing equations of equilibrium for rigid body equilibrium in 2D
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. vector
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-RBSE05-01-da19772fd1774733949af0c7af8730f7
Topic/ Unit: 4. Determine unknown forces and moments that will achieve static equilibrium (2D and 3D) for simple rigid bodies (RBSE)

# Question:

From the options below, select the option that **does not** contain all the necessary equations that describe 2D rigid body static equilibrium in terms of **vector** notation: 

---

---

a) $\sum \overrightarrow{F}_x=0$

$\sum\overrightarrow{F}_y=0$

$\sum\overrightarrow{F}_z=0$

---

b) $\sum \overrightarrow{F}_x=0$

$\sum \overrightarrow{F}_y=0$

$\sum \overrightarrow{M}_A=0$

---

c) $\sum \overrightarrow{F}_x=0$

$\sum \overrightarrow{M}_A=0$

$\sum \overrightarrow{M}_B=0$

*Given that the line passing through points $A$ and $B$ is not parallel to the $y$ axis

---

d) $\sum \overrightarrow{F}_y=0$

$\sum \overrightarrow{M}_A=0$

$\sum \overrightarrow{M}_B=0$

*Given that the line passing through points $A$ and $B$ is not parallel to the $x$ axis

---

# Answer:

a) $\sum \overrightarrow{F}_x=0$

$\sum\overrightarrow{F}_y=0$

$\sum\overrightarrow{F}_z=0$

---

# Feedback:

a) Well done! This option includes **all three directions** of force equilibrium equations, but this question is asking for equations of equilibrium in **2D**. There will be no force vectors in the $z$ direction. 

---

b) This option contains one of the **correct** combinations of vector equations of equilibrium for a rigid body in 2D. If the sums of the component force vectors in both the $x$ and $y$ directions equal zero, and the sum of all vector moments about a point $A$ equals zero, then the rigid body is experiencing static equilibrium. 

Choose an option that **does not** contain a correct combination of the vector equations required for static equilibrium of a rigid body in 2D. 

---

c) This option contains one of the **correct** combinations of vector equations of equilibrium for a rigid body in 2D. If the sum of all the component force vectors in the $x$ direction equals zero, **and** the sum of all vector moments about two separate points $A$ and $B$ equals zero, then the rigid body is experiencing static equilibrium (as long as the line between points $A$ and $B$ is not parallel to the $y$ axis). 

Choose an option that **does not** contain a correct combination of the vector equations required for static equilibrium of a rigid body in 2D. 

---

d) This option contains one of the **correct** combinations of vector equations of equilibrium for a rigid body in 2D. If the sum of all the component force vectors in the $y$ direction equals zero, **and** the sum of all vector moments about two separate points $A$ and $B$ equals zero, then the rigid body is experiencing static equilibrium (as long as the line between points $A$ and $B$ is not parallel to the $x$ axis). 

Choose an option that **does not** contain a correct combination of the vector equations required for static equilibrium of a rigid body in 2D. 

---