# STATICS-VCP07.01.03

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: 3D, cross product, determinant
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: recognize the determinant form of the cross product of two 3D vectors
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. determinant (numbers and letters)                                                
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-VCP07-01-5976815b881f432c99f721eb7f7024d9
Topic/ Unit: 1. Calculate cross products of 2D and 3D vectors (VCP)

# Question:

Consider two 3D vectors, $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$, such that:

$$\overrightarrow{A}=8\hat{i}+3\hat{j}-2\hat{k}\\\overrightarrow{B}=\hat{i}-5\hat{j}+2\hat{k}\\$$

From the options below, select the correct representation of the 3 x 3 matrix needed to calculate the determinant:

a) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\8&3&-2\\1&-5&2\\\end{vmatrix}$

b) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\1&-5&2\\8&3&-2\\\end{vmatrix}$

c) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\8&3&2\\1&5&2\\\end{vmatrix}$

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\8&3&-2\\0&-5&2\\\end{vmatrix}$

# Answer:

a) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=\begin{vmatrix}\hat{i}&\hat{j}&\hat{k}\\8&3&-2\\1&-5&2\\\end{vmatrix}$

# Feedback:

a) Correct! When setting up the 3 x 3 matrix for 3D vectors, the unit vectors must be included as the first row. The first vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ is then set up in the second row, and the second vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ is set in the third row, with components placed left to right.  Notice the negative signs are retained, and that the "missing" number in the $B_x$ component is actually a 1.

b) When setting up the 3 x 3 matrix for 3D vectors, the unit vectors must be included as the first row. The first vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ is then set up in the second row, and the second vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ is set in the third row, with components placed left to right. This option has the order of the $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$ vectors reversed in rows two and three. 

c) When setting up the 3 x 3 matrix for 3D vectors, the unit vectors must be included as the first row. The first vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ is then set up in the second row, and the second vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ is set in the third row, with components placed left to right.  Watch that you include all negative signs with the appropriate terms.

d) When setting up the 3 x 3 matrix for 3D vectors, the unit vectors must be included as the first row. The first vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ is then set up in the second row, and the second vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ is set in the third row, with components placed left to right. Note that if a component doesn't seem to have a number, as in $B_x$, then it is actually a 1, not a zero.