# STATICS-VCP02.01.04

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: 2D, cross product, expression
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: recognize the correct mathematical expression for the cross product of two vectors
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 1. 2D vectors                                                                          
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-VCP02-01-d4195d5b5b0f473799b0dc1412cf383c
Topic/ Unit: 1. Calculate cross products of 2D and 3D vectors (VCP)

# Question:

From the options below, select the correct representation for the mathematical expression of the cross product between two 2D vectors, $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$, where they have a respective magnitude of $A$ and $B$ and an angle between them of $\theta$:

a) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\sin\theta)\hat{j}$

b) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\sin\theta)$

c) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\sin\theta)\hat{i}$

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\sin\theta)\hat{k}$

# Answer:

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\sin\theta)\hat{k}$

# Feedback:

a) While the expression for the magnitude of the cross product is correct here, the direction is not. Because of the right hand rule, the result of a cross product between two vectors in the $x$-$y$ plane must be directed along the $z$ axis. 

b) While the expression for the magnitude of the cross product is correct here, a cross product yields a vector, not a scalar.  This scalar value should be multiplied by a unit vector.  Because of the right hand rule, the result of a cross product between two vectors in the $x$-$y$ plane must be directed along the $z$ axis. 

c) While the expression for the magnitude of the cross product is correct here, the direction is not. Because of the right hand rule, the result of a cross product between two vectors in the $x$-$y$ plane must be directed along the $z$ axis.. 

d) Correct! This version of the 2D vector cross product includes the magnitudes of each vector and the sine of the angle between them. The direction of the cross product must be along unit vector $\hat{k}$, according to the right hand rule.