# STATICS-VCP04.03.01

Automatic Grading: Yes
Keywords: 2D, cross product, dot product
Last Edit: Oct 30, 2020 11:22 AM
Last Edited By: Nicholas Betancourt
Learning Outcome: distinguish dot and cross products and their characteristics
Module: Module 2: Identify and solve introductory level rigid body statics problems
Needs Calculator: No
On Mobius: Yes
Origin/Author: Caelia
Question Format: Multiple choice
Question Type: A
Randomizable Parameters: No
Sean Reviewed: Yes
Shaobo Reviewed: No
Status: Approved
Sub-Outcome: 3. relative magnitudes given different angles between them
Sub-Outcome Code: https://www.notion.so/STATICS-VCP04-03-8986307832254f01af83253e05af1f4e
Topic/ Unit: 1. Calculate cross products of 2D and 3D vectors (VCP)

# Question:

Consider two 2D vectors, $\overrightarrow{A}$ and $\overrightarrow{B}$, that only exist in the $x$-$y$ plane. Vector $\overrightarrow{A}$ has magnitude $A$ and vector $\overrightarrow{B}$ has magnitude $B$. The angle between the two vectors is denoted by $\theta$. 

The **dot product** of these two vectors can be expressed as:

$$\overrightarrow{A}\cdot\overrightarrow{B}=AB\cos\theta$$

The **cross product** of these two vectors can be expressed as:

$$\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}=(AB\sin\theta)\hat{k}$$

What is the effect on the magnitude of the dot product and the cross product as the angle $\theta$ approaches **zero** (gets smaller)?

a) $\overrightarrow{A}\cdot\overrightarrow{B}$ gets larger and $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}$ gets larger

b) $\overrightarrow{A}\cdot\overrightarrow{B}$ gets smaller and $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}$ gets smaller

c) $\overrightarrow{A}\cdot\overrightarrow{B}$ gets smaller and $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}$ gets larger

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\cdot\overrightarrow{B}$ gets larger and $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}$ gets smaller

# Answer:

d) $\overrightarrow{A}\cdot\overrightarrow{B}$ gets larger and $\overrightarrow{A}\times\overrightarrow{B}$ gets smaller

# Feedback:

a) When $\theta$ approaches zero, $\cos\theta$ approaches 1 and $\sin\theta$ approaches zero. The statement about the dot product in this option is correct, but the cross product should respond in the opposite way to the dot product. 

b) When $\theta$ approaches zero, $\cos\theta$ approaches 1 and $\sin\theta$ approaches zero. The statement about the cross product in this option is correct, but the dot product should respond in the opposite way to the cross product. 

c) When $\theta$ approaches zero, $\cos\theta$ approaches 1 and $\sin\theta$ approaches zero. This means that the dot product and the cross product should have opposite tendencies, which they do here.  But these are the wrong tendencies.  Consider the equations for dot and cross products, and think about what happens as $\theta$ goes to zero.

d) Good job! As $\theta$ approaches zero, $\cos\theta$ approaches 1, which **maximizes** the dot product.  For the same behaviour of $\theta$, $\sin\theta$ approaches zero, which **minimizes** the cross product (to zero).